## React components
4 ways to create components the 2 and 4 is the most used :
1. ES5 createClass
2. ES6 class
3. ES5 stateless function
4. ES6 stateless function
5. Other way
  * Object.create
  * Mixins
  * Parasitic components
  * StampIt

### ES5 Class Component
```js
var HelloWorld = React.createClass({
  render: function () {
    return (
      <h1>Hello World</h1>
    );
  }
});
```

### React in ES6

#### No autobind
Work fine with ES5 createClass
```js
<div onClick={this.handleClick}></div>
```

Require explicit bind with ES6 Class
```js
<div onClick={this.handleClick.bind(this)}></div>
```
For performance reason, instead, bind the function inside the constructor
```js
class Contacts extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);
  }
}
```
### propTypes
- PropTypes declared separately below your definition.
- Default props declared separately.
  - If you want to declare your propType within your class, use babel-stage1 support
- Set initial state in constructor.

### ES5 Stateless Functional Component
```js
var HelloWorld = function(props){
  return (
    <h1>Hello World</h1>
  );
}
```

### ES6 Stateless Functional Component
```js
const HelloWorld = (props) => {
  return (
    <h1>Hello World</h1>
  );
}
```

### Benifits of stateless Functional components
Use it when possible.
* No class Needed
  - No extend
  - No constructor
* Avoid `this` keyword
  - No bind() method
* Enforce best parctices
  - Dum presentation component focus on the UI instead of behaviours
  - State should be managed to the hight level component with Flux, Redux ...
  - Do not support state or life cycle method. so no state here...
    - You are force to put states management where it belong in the higher level container component.
* Easy to understand
  - It only spit up html
* Easy to test.
  - No mocking, special manipulation, special library
* Enhance performance
  - No memory allocation

```js
import React from 'react';

const HelloWorld = (props) => {
  const sayHi = (event) => {
    alert(`Hi ${props.name}`);
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <a
        href="#"
        onClick={sayHi}>Say Hi </a>
    </div>
  );
};

HelloWorld.propTypes = {
  name: React.PropTypes.string.isRequired
};

export default HelloWorld;
```

### When use stateless functional component
When is possible.

### When use Class component
* Need state
  local state
* Need references
  Refs to the underline DOM.
* Need LifeCycle methods hooks
  componentMounted, componentDidMounted
* Need Child function (for performance)
  Every render create a new instance of the component, so avoid nested function. with the stateless function.

### When use Class component
* Everywhere else


## Other ways to create components
- Object.create
- Mixins
- Parasitic components
- StampIt

Most used is Container & Presentation components

More info : [bit.ly/react-define-component](bit.ly/react-define-component)

## Container VS Presentation component

Container | Presentation
Little to no markup | Nerly all markup
Pass data and actions down | receive data and action via props
Knows about Redux | Doesn't know about Redux rely on props to display UI
Often stateful | Typically functional components

## Alternative Jargon
**Container** | **Presentation**
Smart | Dump
Stateful | Stateless
Controller View | View

> Note * "When you notice that some components don't use props they receive but merely forward them down.. it's a good time to introduce some container components." Dan Abramov.


Container :
 1. is concerned with behaviour
   - Has no markup (like a backend)
   - The primary concern is passing data down to it's child
   - They are statefull
   - They pass data and actions down
   - Knows about Redux

Presentation (most common) :
 1. Nerly all markup
   - They are dum, no logic inside.
   - Receive data and actions via props
   - Doesn't know about Redux just reley on props.
   - Tipically functional components (no state)
