## links
[github](https://github.com/bstavroulakis/progressive-web-apps/tree/master/car-deals)

[Demos](https://bstavroulakis.com/pluralsight/courses/progressive-web-apps/)

[example](https://bstavroulakis.com/pluralsight/courses/progressive-web-apps/pwa/)

[list of successful wpa](developers.google.com/web/showcase/2016/jumia)

[push Notification](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/getting-started/codelabs/push-notifications/?hl=en)

[Useful Demo](https://serviceworke.rs/)

[star wars](https://github.com/mdn/sw-test)
[Doc star wars](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API/Using_Service_Workers)
## PWA
1) Offline First
2) Installable
3) Native Features

Push notification event when the web page is closed.

In chrome tool, we have tab `Application`



## Caracteristic
* Load instantly
* Use HTTPS
* App-Like (emulate native app behiaviours)
  * App shell
  * Push notification
* On the web crawlable on browser and s
* progressive Enhancements
* Installable, to home screen.



## App shell
Is the first step to take to create instant loading application.
It split into two part. And it should load as fast as possible. Be instant.
* The part that change (dynamic, connect to server)
* The parte that won't change (static, sotre localy)
 * Could be the header
 * The styles
 * Templates

## persistance
### Old way
Transmited with each http request.
* `cookies` : only 4kb

### Web Storage HTML5
2.5-5MB as a string and not transmited with each http request. Asyncronous.
* `sessionStorage` : saved until the window is closed
* `localStorage` : No expiration.

## External library
[localforage](https://www.npmjs.com/package/localforage)

## Offline pages
* App cache is deprecated.

## List of storage
* cookies
* HTML5 Web storage (Local Storage, Session Storage)
* WebSQL
* IndexDb

`localStorage`, or more accurately DOM Storage, was designed for smaller amounts of data. It's essentially a strings only key - value storage, with a simplistic synchronous API. That last part is key. Although there's nothing in the specification that prohibits an asynchronous DOM Storage, currently all implementations are synchronous (i.e. blocking requests). Even if you didn't mind using a naive key - value storage for larger amounts of data, your clients will mind waiting forever for your application to load.

`indexedDB`, on the other hand, was designed to work with significantly larger amounts of data. First, in theory, it provides both a synchronous and an asynchronous API. In practice, however, all current implementations are asynchronous, and requests will not block the user interface from loading. Additionally, indexedDB, as the name reveals, provides indexes. You can run rudimentary queries on your database and fetch records by looking up theirs keys in specific key ranges. indexedDB also supports transactions, and provides simple types (e.g. Date).

it's completely up to you if you use DOM Storage or indexedDB, or both, in your application. A good use case for DOM Storage would be to store simple session data, for example a user's name, and save you some requests to your actual database. indexedDB's additional features, on the other hand, could help you store all the data you need for your application to work offline.

## Application cache is deprecated
it’s in the process of being removed from the Web platform. Use Service Workers instead. In fact as of Firefox 44, when AppCache is used to provide offline support for a page a warning message is now displayed in the console advising developers to use Service workers instead (bug 1204581).

```
<html manifest="example.appcache">
  ...
</html>
```

```
CACHE MANIFEST
# v1 2011-08-14
# This is another comment
index.html
cache.html
style.css
image1.png

# Use from network if available
NETWORK:
network.html

# Fallback content
FALLBACK:
. fallback.html
```

## Cache storage (used by PWA)
The CacheStorage interface represents the storage for Cache objects. It provides a master directory of all the named caches that a ServiceWorker, other type of worker or window scope can access (you don't have to use it with service workers, even though that is the spec that defines it) and maintains a mapping of string names to corresponding Cache objects.


They is no warranty that the client will keep the cache so do not rely on the client storage, we need to sync the data as progressive web app.

## Offline Support and service workers
Service worker work as a proxy between the network and the browser. So it can run while we are offline in the background even when our site is closed. So we can trigger event when ours site is closed.

Service worker can only be serve thought `HTTPS` request. This is because service worker is a strong script that can ijack connection and manage responses. So `https` can protect from mand in the middle attack. But you can run it on localhost as developpement without https. Chrome, Firefox and Opera support service worker.

* are script that run separately from our web page with separate Thread.
* Intercept Network requests so the network can be treat as an enhancement.
* Contains events like fetch, push (push notification), sync (triggered when network status is updated)

`Service worker global scope` does not have DOM access and stand in between our client and the network. It can run on it's own without a page.

`fetch event` : intercept all our site request. It can return result from our local storage or return the result from the network.

`push event`: Is our browser generate an end point and we can send the endpoint to our server. The push event can be triggered even when the site is closed.

`sync event`: Can be fired when user has connectivity.


## Enhance experience with browser compatibility

PWA, progressive enhancement...
[check compatibility](https://jakearchibald.github.io/isserviceworkerready/)

## flags / config
* Firefox : about:config (dom.serviceWorkers.enabled)
* Chrome : chrome://flags (experimental-web-platform-features:enable)
* Opera : opera://flags (support for serviceWorker)

## FAQ service worker Chrome
[FAQ sw https](https://www.chromium.org/blink/serviceworker/service-worker-faq)

[Good demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sTgN5rDC49A)

```bash
$ ./chrome --user-data-dir=/tmp/foo --unsafely-treat-insecure-origin-as-secure=http://localhost
```

## ServiceWorkerGlobalScope
```
EventTarget <-- WorkerGlobalScope <-- ServiceWorkerGlobalScope
```
Service worker expand on webWorker, it mean that :
* is no access to the dom
* No page
* Global Script Context
* Run Without page
* Event-driven
If we open the page in multiple tab, it will be on the same service worker.
When we update the sw.js, all the old client need to be closed first before using the new version

## States of SW (6 states)
* Parsed (downloaded/Parsed)
  - Download the page from the server
* Installing
  - `install` Event is triggerd
* Install/Waiting
  - In that state the sw is valid. and installed but not yet active.
* Activating
  - `activate` Event is trigged
* Activated
  - Full control of the document.
  - We can handle event such fetch, sync and push...
* Redundent
  - If the activating or installing failed or if the service worker is replaced by another one.


example of swRegister.js
```js
// Check the compatibility and Register our service worker
if('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
  navigator.serviceWorker.register('sw.js')
  .then((swRegistration)=>{
    console.log('swRegistration', swRegistration);
    let serviceWorker = null;
    if(swRegistration.installing) {
      console.log('Resolved at installing: ', swRegistration);
      serviceWorker = swRegistration.installing;
    }else if(swRegistration.waiting){
      console.log('Resolved at installed/waiting: ', swRegistration);
      serviceWorker = swRegistration.waiting;
    }else if(swRegistration.active){
      console.log('Resolved at activated: ', swRegistration);
      serviceWorker = swRegistration.active;
    }
    if(serviceWorker != null) {
      serviceWorker.addEventListener('statechange', (e)=>{
          console.log('e.target.state', e.target.state);
      })
    }
  }).catch((error)=>{
    console.log( error);
  })
}
```

If the browser is refreshed, we can see the skiped installing and installed waiting status.


## The scope
Whe we register a service worker, we select a path that ours service worker is located. This will be the path of the pages that ours service worker will check.

If we register
```js
navigator.servieWorker.register('/car/sw.js')

```
It will be in control under the `/car/` path. but we can specify the scope with the lower level of the path of the scope. That why we often put the `sw.js` at the root of ours web project.
```js
navigator.servieWorker.register('/car/sw.js', {scope: '/toyota/'})

```

## Cache API or caching storage

The best place to use ours cache is during the installing state (inside the 'install' event listener). We can use `event.waitUntil()` to wait before trigger the next event.

```js
let carDealCacheName = 'carDealCacheNameV1';

let carDealCacheFiles = [
  '/',
  '/manifest.js',
  '/normalize.js',
  '/vendor.js',
  '/main.js'
];

self.addEventListener('install', (event)=>{
  console.log('From SW: Install Event', event);
  // Until the promise in the event.waitUntil is resolve.
  // That enable the next event only when event.waitUntil is finished
  event.waitUntil(
    caches.open(carDealCacheName)
    .then((cacheStorage)=>{
      return cacheStorage.addAll(carDealCacheFiles)
    })
  );
});
```

## Cleaning old cache file
The best place is in activating state.

```js
self.addEventListener('activate', (event)=>{
  console.log('From SW: Activate Event', event);
  event.waitUntil(
    caches.keys()
    .then((cacheKeys)=>{
      let deletePromises = [];
      cacheKeys.forEach((cacheKey)=>{
        if(cacheKey != carDealCacheName && cacheKey != carDealCachePageName) {
          deletePromises.push(caches.delete(cacheKey))
        }
      });
      let promiseAll = Promise.all(deletePromises);
      return promiseAll;
    })
  )
});
```

## self.skipWaiting()
When the tab still open on the sw and it is updated, the state is in Application. We can use `skipWaitning()` inside `install` event to skip and force the update to become the active service worker.


## self.clients.claim()
Set the worker as active inside the `activate` event.

## Two more event
1) controller change event ('controlerchange')

When the serviceWorker of this page change. throught `self.skipWaiting()` And `self.client.claim()`

```js
navigator.serviceWorker.addEventListener('controllerchange', (e)=>{
  console.log('Controller change!!');
});
```
2) update change event ('updatefound') whithin registration object.

```js
navigator.serviceWorker.register('sw.js')
.then((swRegistration)=>{
  swRegistration.addEventListener('updatefound',(e)=>{
    console.log('New service Worker found!', swRegistration)
    swRegistration.installing.addEventListener('statechange', (e)=>{
      console.log('New service worker state: ', e.target.state);
    });
  });
});
```

## Check manually for update
Check manually for update every 5 seconds.
```js
navigator.serviceWorker.register('sw.js')
.then((swRegistration)=>{
  setInterval(()=>{
    swRegistration.update();
  }, 5000);
});
```

With `self.skipWaiting()` and `self.clients.claim()` you have full control over the service Worker. And throught the events

'setchange', 'updatefound', 'controllerchanged' : You can know what is going on behind the scenes.  


## Fetch events
All network request pass throught the fetch event.
```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', (event)=>{
  //console.log('fetch', event)
  event.respondWith(new Response('hello'));
})
```
It only triggered after the sw is in `activated` state. Before activated state, the data loaded do not pass throught 'fetch'

## Network Only strategy
```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', (event)=>{
  console.log('fetch', event)
  //event.respondWith(new Response('hello'));
  let requestUrl = new URL(event.request.url);
  let requestPath = requestUrl.pathname;
  let fileName = requestPath.substring(requestPath.lastIndexOf('/') + 1);

  // Exception fetch (latest-deals.php and sw.js)
  // over the network only strategy
  if(requestPath == latestPath || fileName == 'sw.js') {
    console.log('Network only for :', fileName)
    event.respondWith(fetch(event.request));
  }
})
```

## Network first then offline strategy
